- This is Monique, man,
I'm telling you, oh--
- Babe, he be sayin'
it like I'm a problem.
(audience laughter)
- Oh, you have been a problem.
- Well, Steve, okay--
- What was it?
Let's go.
- Let's go.
- You started getting
labeled as difficult.
- Yes.
- Why do you believe that that happened
and do you see that changing and why?
- I got labeled as
difficult, my husband and I,
and my husband is Sydney,
who happens to be my manager.
We got labeled as difficult
because I said one word,
and that was no.
Now I said no to some
very powerful people.
I said no to Oprah Winfrey.
I said no to Tyler Perry.
I said no to Lee Daniels.
And I said no to Lionsgate.
And the difficulty came in
when people that look like me,
like Oprah, Tyler, Lee
Daniels, and I gotta
put my brother Steve on the list.
Y'all knew I was not wrong.
Each one of you said to me,
"Monique, you're not wrong."
And when I heard you go
on the air and you said,
"My sister done burnt too many bridges,
"and there's nothing
I can do for her now."
Steve, do you know how hurt I was?
- You see, Mo, now let me give you this.
Because, you and I had this conversation,
I thought you went about it wrong.
See, I felt that you had
done yourself a disservice
by the way you chose to go about it.
- Tell me how I went about it.
- I was cool with your deal with Netflix.
I was cool with you.
The two problems that we had, number one,
the boycott of Netflix,
- [Monique] Yes.
- we never gave people a point of action.`
okay, if we're gonna
boycott, are we gonna not
get subscriptions, are
we gonna turn it off,
are we gonna go down there and get signs.
The second point what
was comin' to me was,
this problem you had with Netflix,
is rich people problems.
Cause they lookin' at us
goin', you talkin' bout
you didn't get millions,
but you got this, you oughta be cool.
- But when you say, Mo, what's
the way you went about it.
And I wanna explain that, and
I thank you for saying that.
Inequality is devastating
and it's extreme.
And when people said,
Monique, do you think
calling a boycott was extreme?
You damn right.
But isn't inequality extreme?
So we've gotta get to a place
where we're unafraid to say it out loud.
What I would have loved, what I would have
appreciated from my
brother, was had you picked
up the phone before you
went on the air and said
Monique, you've burnt too many bridges
and there's nothing I can do.
Say, I would've appreciated had my brother
called me up and said, Baby let's talk.
Because you doing that was a
part of me being difficult.
- But now, before that though--
- Yes baby.
- Remember the moment on stage?
- Oh yes.
- See, now that there--
- That was a wonderful moment Steve.
- No it wasn't, Monique.
- Oh my goodness.
- No it wasn't!
- That was one of those moments
I love that Richard Pryor--
- See, no it wasn't
- Whispered in my ear and
said, say it, you say it.
- Richard Pryor did not tell
you to say those things--
- I'm gonna tell you
something, yes he did,
oh baby, yes he did, yes he did!
(audience applause)
I do not regret, as I said
on the Steve Harvey show,
I do not regret one moment
of that night on that stage--
- Now Mo, now in case you
don't know, Mo told Tyler Perry
- I wanna hold your hand.
- Oprah Winfrey--
- Uh-huh-
- And Lee Daniels--
- Tell 'em.
- To suck her private parts.
- Not my private parts.
- Well you said if I had one.
- Yeah.
- I want them three to
suck my private parts.
- Yeah!
- It wasn't private
parts on stage, so now,
then I went houhhh, I quit breathin'.
I quit breathin' for you!
- I didn't.
- What happened to you, Mo, was when you
made that statement, the
narrative got flipped.
It wasn't about Netflix no more.
The tension was all off
of where we needed to go.
- That's before Netflix.
- Huh?
- That was before Netflix.
- So good, so now when
you bring up Netflix,
it doesn't get no wind,
but you done just said
this to these three people.
And these three people,
- Yes.
- Not because they're powerful,
but because of who they've come.
And what happens is I told you,
we can't cure darkness with more darkness.
- What we can do is cure it with comedy.
And what I'm not gonna
do Steve, I'm never, ever
gonna waver from my
comedy show on that stage.
That's my gift, and that's my freedom.
And what happens is, when you allow people
to start taking your freedom and your gift
and making it become what
makes them comfortable,
we then lose.
When you called me with the
morning show on the phone,
I said to you, Steve, my family
is suffering behind this.
And you all know I did nothing wrong.
You all know my husband did nothing wrong.
But none of y'all, in
real time, in real time,
was stronger enough to go publicly and say
we can't throw our sister under the bus.
- Because, Mo, listen to me,
we fightin' two wars here.
- What war?
- There's two wars,
it's what your issue is
and it's what the
perception of the issue is
and the narrative has changed.
- See, I'm hearing what
you're saying baby--
- No, Mo--
- And I agree with it when
the narrative changes.
But if all of y'all said,
this is the only issue
I have with it baby, when
all of y'all said privately,
to include Oprah, all
of y'all said privately
I've done nothin' wrong.
- When you tell the truth, you have to
deal with the repercussions of the truth!
We black out here.
We can't come out here and do
it any kind of way we want to.
- Let me, oh--
- Listen to me, your husband--
- Yes.
- Can't be the Sydney that
he really is out here.
- Let me tell you something--
- That flexin', we gotta
flex a different way.
- Let me tell you something,
let me tell you something--
- We out here in game,
this the money game.
This ain't the black man's game,
this ain't the white man's game.
- [Monique] It's the money game.
- This the money game,
we in the money game--
- But I'm gonna tell you something--
- And you cannot sacrifice yourself.
The best thing you can
do for poor people--
- [Monique] This is why I love my brother.
- Is not be one of 'em.
You cannot help them Mo.
- We're in the money
game, but let me tell you
what the game is before the money game.
- You cannot help them like that.
- Before the money game, it's
called the integrity game.
And we've lost the integrity
worrying about the money.
- But Mo--
- Wait a minute, wait a minute--
- If I crumble, my children crumble,
my grandchildren crumble.
I cannot, for the sake of
my integrity, stand up here
and let everybody that's
counting on me crumble
so I can make a statement.
There are ways to win the
war in a different way.
We got more right after this.
(exit theme music)